[rocprofiler-compute] Bump VERSION and CHANGELOG for ROCm 7.12 release (#3252)
ROCm/rocm-systems: projects/rocprofiler-compute/CHANGELOG.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Iteration multiplexing to collect counters within a single application run.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * A specific profiler is provided through the ``ROCPROF`` environment variable.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The ``--no-native-tool`` option is provided, forcing use of the default profiler.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * A dynamic attach is performed to profile a running process.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `--torch-trace` option to enable mapping of PyTorch operators to collected counter values during profiling.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * GPU kernels from [rocm-amdgpu-bench](https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-amdgpu-bench) repository have been moved into the ROCm Compute Profiler and are now compiled at runtime using local HIP and HIPRTC Python wrappers.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Roofline binaries compiled from [rocm-amdgpu-bench](https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-amdgpu-bench) repository have been removed, as Roofline runtime compilation performs the equivalent work as the Roofline binaries.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Support for collecting standalone Roofline empirical peaks without running the entire ROCm Compute Profiler's profile mode, through an entry point in [benchmark.py](https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-systems/blob/HEAD/projects/rocprofiler-compute/src/utils/benchmark.py). Running the `benchmark.py` Python file replaces calling the standalone Roofline binary.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Synced the latest metric descriptions to public-facing documentation.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Updated metric units in the documentation to improve readability.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``--output-directory`` option in profile mode to allow parameterized output paths for profiling data.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Improved VALU FP16 roofline benchmark to achieve peak performance by using vector types for packed math instructions.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Negative values are clamped to 0 (eliminates physically impossible negative counts).
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Warnings are issued only when the relative error exceeds 1% (anomaly detection).
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Added FAQ documentation explaining the "Counter variance corrected" warning.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Improved warnings when metrics cannot be calculated due to missing counter data.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Fixed the check to prevent displaying tables with columns full of N/A values.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Improved the detection of empty values when metric evaluation fails due to missing counter data.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixed the issue of missing counter data when profiling workloads that spawn multiple child processes.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixed the issue where dispatch filtering in a range (e.g. >2) was not working.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Removed redundant warnings for compute/memory partition not found for AMD Instinct MI300 series and later GPUs by skipping partition checks.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Corrected the formula for metrics related to reads from L2 cache to HBM for AMD Instinct MI350 GPUs.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Removed the ``VL1 Lat`` metric for AMD Instinct MI300 series GPUs, as these GPUs do not support the ``TCP_TCP_LATENCY_sum`` counter.
```

### Added

### Changed

### Resolved issues

### Removed

### Optimized

### Deprecated

## ROCm Compute Profiler 3.5.0 for ROCm 7.12.0

### Added

> * Native tool to perform counter collection using ROCprofiler-SDK public API. It is only supported for ROCm version 7.0.0 (and later).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Native tool to perform counter collection using the ROCprofiler-SDK public API. It is supported starting with ROCm version 7.0.0 and later.
```

>   * Native tool is now the default for counter collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Native tool is now the default method for counter collection.
```

  * Support for collecting standalone Roofline empirical peaks without running the entire ROCm Compute Profiler's profile mode, through an entry point in [benchmark.py](https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-systems/blob/HEAD/projects/rocprofiler-compute/src/utils/benchmark.py). Running the `benchmark.py` Python file replaces calling the standalone Roofline binary.

* Synced the latest metric descriptions to public-facing documentation.
  * Updated metric units in the documentation to improve readability.

* ``--output-directory`` option in profile mode to allow parameterized output paths for profiling data.

* Automatic MPI rank detection during profiling, with output directories created per MPI rank.

* Added `--experimental` flag to enable experimental features that are under development. This flag is required when using any experimental features.
  * Use `rocprof-compute --experimental --help` to see currently available experimental features.

* GPU benchmark locking for Roofline benchmarking to prevent concurrent profiling conflicts on the same GPU.

>     * Multiple rocprof-compute processes can safely profile on different GPUs in parallel.

Reviewer: Should it be the general communication name ROCm Compute Profiler? If a specific process name, then it should be ``rocprof-compute`` (enclosed under double quotes(``)).

* Corrected peak VALU Roofline profiling and analysis by removing `FP8` VALU and `BF16` VALU benchmarking that was erroneously added during implementation of these datatypes into roofline feature.

* Corrected the functioning of the ``--dispatch`` option to act as a 1-based index and ensure that correct kernel iterations are being profiled.

* Analysis mode bugfixes:
  * Improved warnings when metrics cannot be calculated due to missing counter data.
  * Fixed the check to prevent displaying tables with columns full of N/A values.
  * Improved the detection of empty values when metric evaluation fails due to missing counter data.

* Fixed the issue of missing counter data when profiling workloads that spawn multiple child processes.

* Fixed the issue where the maximum memory clock detected from the ``amd-smi`` interface incorrectly used the max gfx clock.

* Fixed the issue of incorrect values from ``amd-smi`` when some GPU devices were hidden by ROCR or HIP environment variables.

* Removed redundant warnings for compute/memory partition not found for AMD Instinct MI300 series and later GPUs by skipping the partition checks.

> * Corrected the formula for metrics related to reads from L2 cache to HBM for AMD Instinct MI350 GPUs.

Reviewer: "Corrected the formula for metrics related to reads from L2 cache to HBM for AMD Instinct MI350 GPUs.", Is this implementation only for AMD Instinct MI350X GPUs or AMD Instinct MI350 Series GPUs (i.e MI350X and MI355X)?

Author: Its for MI 350 series covering both MI350X and MI355X

> * Detection of MPI ranks while profiling and creation of output directories based on MPI rank.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Automatic MPI rank detection during profiling, with output directories created per MPI rank.
```

> * Added `--experimental` flag to enable experimental features that are under development. This flag is required when using any experimental features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `--experimental` flag to enable in‑development experimental features. This flag is required when using any experimental functionality.
```

  * Use `rocprof-compute --experimental --help` to see currently available experimental features.

> * Added missing metric descriptions for gfx950 architecture

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Missing metric descriptions for gfx950 architecture.
```

* Default output format for the underlying ROCprofiler-SDK tool has been changed from ``csv`` to ``rocpd``.
  * If the ROCprofiler-SDK ``rocpd`` public library is not available, will fall back to ``csv`` format

> * Option ``--rocprofiler-sdk-library-path`` has been changed to ``--rocprofiler-sdk-tool-library-path`` to better reflect the fact that we provide flexibility in choosing the path to ROCprofiler-SDK tool and not the library.

Reviewer 2: I think this was resolved for the suggestion, so i'm going to pass on that, but I want to re-check the arg name, which copilot highlighted that in argparser I only find "--rocprofiler-sdk-tool-path", not "--rocprofiler-sdk-tool-library-path"
Can you confirm if it should contain "library" or not? Or is this a change that is in PR right now and not develop, it is just being preemptively chnaged?

> * Option ``--rocprofiler-sdk-library-path`` has been changed to ``--rocprofiler-sdk-tool-library-path`` to better reflect the fact that we provide flexibility in choosing the path to ROCprofiler-SDK tool and not the library.

Author: good catch!

> * Option ``--rocprofiler-sdk-library-path`` has been changed to ``--rocprofiler-sdk-tool-library-path`` to better reflect the fact that we provide flexibility in choosing the path to ROCprofiler-SDK tool and not the library.

Author: it should not contain library, the original changelog stmt. was wrong

> * Default output format for the underlying ROCprofiler-SDK tool has been changed from ``csv`` to ``rocpd``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The default output format for the underlying ROCprofiler-SDK tool has been changed from ``csv`` to ``rocpd``.
```

>   * If the ROCprofiler-SDK ``rocpd`` public library is not available, will fall back to ``csv`` format

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * If the ROCprofiler-SDK ``rocpd`` public library is not available, the tool will fall back to ``csv`` format.
```

> * Option ``--rocprofiler-sdk-library-path`` has been changed to ``--rocprofiler-sdk-tool-path`` to better reflect the fact that we provide flexibility in choosing the path to ROCprofiler-SDK tool (librocprofiler-sdk-tool.so) and not the library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Changed the option ``--rocprofiler-sdk-library-path`` to ``--rocprofiler-sdk-tool-path`` to more accurately describe that it selects the path to the ROCprofiler-SDK tool (librocprofiler-sdk-tool.so) and not the library.
```

> * Fixed the meaning of --dispatch option in profile mode in argparser to convey the fact that it control which iterations of the kernel to profile and not which dispatch ids to profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Corrected the meaning of ``--dispatch`` option in profile mode in ``argparser`` to clarify that it controls which kernel iterations to profile and not which dispatch IDs to profile.
```

* Corrected peak VALU Roofline profiling and analysis by removing `FP8` VALU and `BF16` VALU benchmarking that was erroneously added during implementation of these datatypes into roofline feature.

> * Fix the functioning of --dispatch option to act as 1-based index and ensure that correct kernel iterations are being profiled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Corrected the functioning of the ``--dispatch`` option to act as a 1-based index and ensure that correct kernel iterations are being profiled.
```

* Corrected peak VALU Roofline profiling and analysis by removing `FP8` VALU and `BF16` VALU benchmarking in favor of MFMA peaks.

> * Fixed issue where detected max memory clock from amd-smi interface was using max gfx clock

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixed an issue where the maximum memory clock detected from the ``amd-smi`` interface incorrectly used the max gfx clock.
```

>   * Fixed issue where values detected from amd-smi were wrong when some GPU devices were hidden using ROCR or HIP environment variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Fixed the issue of incorrect values from ``amd-smi`` when some GPU devices were hidden by ROCR or HIP environment variables. 
```

* Fix the functioning of --dispatch option to act as 1-based index and ensure that correct kernel iterations are being profiled

> * Corrected peak VALU Roofline profiling and analysis by removing `FP8` VALU and `BF16` VALU benchmarking in favor of MFMA peaks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Corrected peak VALU Roofline profiling and analysis by removing `FP8` VALU and `BF16` VALU benchmarking that was erroneously added during implementation of these datatypes into roofline feature.
```
MFMA was always present, we just had added VALU to these datatypes as well without the technical awareness that these datatypes only go through the matrix cores, not Vector ALU.
Open to rewording or shortening of statement.
